The last basic operation we can perform on
relational tables is aggregation on top of
a table. There are nicely done here two examples
of early materialization and late materialization.
Since we have everything coded in integers,
in columns, in a column store, we do late
materialization and we can just jump in how
this works. Basically you should know already
how it works
We want to do this here: SELECT city, COUNT(*)
FROM world_population WHERE gender =”m”
AND country=”GER” GROUP BY city. If we
walk through playing on a LEGO-Level of the
system then we do parallel; we learned already
we should do it the other way; […].
So we should do this first here with the predicate
“GER” we go in, lookup, find GER is 68
in the dictionary and we have a ValueID 68.
We do the same with “m” (male), look it
up and we get 0.
We have two results, we have four Germans
and these are the males. And we can AND them
now and so the remaining position vector is
1-4.
Whether this is done in parallel or whether
both vectors are created and then ANDed; it’s
a minor implementation issue. We continue
now.
After we have this, we apply this now on the
vector of city and count now for the ones
1, 2 and 4 how many are in 443 and how many
are in 357. 1 and 2.
And the last one is we materialize now back
1 and 2, we look it up and we find as Bonn
and Berlin and the real result is now Bonn:
1 and Berlin: 2.
This is how the machine works: tuck, tuck,
tuck, tuck. And each tuck is one 2.5 billionth
of a second. This is the speed with which
the machine is working. And again you can
see if we can distinguish the Berliners out
the 8 billion using an index as a huge advantage,
if we have to go through all 8 billion to
find the Berliners, it is four times slower
on average.